hello everyone I am in the Travis cafard
eSports studio right now joined by
Sebastian Park of the well Houston
Rockets but now clutch gaming both both
yes yeah I mean people are going to know
you more as clutch gaming and we'll talk
about this a little bit but first off
congratulations on making it into the
LCS thank you very much sir yeah now
let's talk about your road to making it
into the LCS because I've known you for
a while but I think a lot of people
maybe aren't especially in league aren't
familiar with you know your history so
maybe you can talk to me a little bit
sure because this is insert date here
yeah whenever this comes out yes we
first made and by we I mean a Houston
Rockets made the first hire for eSports
back December November of last year's it
was thank you it was me okay
yeah not to be opaque abednego it was me
and you're likely heard of brilliant
young minds to come and run their
eSports you're so kind
yeah Nowak so actually what happens is
that a lot of teams are buying like
seventy six years by Dignitas liquid
does the axiomatic Leonsis Cooper thing
a lot of other teams are coming in right
now and one of the big things that
happens is that the Rockets with the
former owner Leslie Alexander is like
hey instead of buying a team outright
that's like bring someone in let's build
up our understanding over time and let's
see what we can do and so what's really
cool there was that we basically came in
we went in and like we observed all the
different games over watch dota
counter-strike League karst hearthstone
okay you can read my mind
and then and pub cheats to actually to a
certain extent vainglory a couple other
games as well and we decided like very
early on that League of Legends was our
game that League of Legends was a game
we wanted to do there was a game we were
going to go into and so fast forward a
little bit February or March we were we
hired the first couple people like
scouts and analysts for League of
Legends and then we submitted our
application July and then we did our
face - and somehow got it so why not try
to acquire a challengers team or get
them because this was kind of high-risk
high-reward right like if you go through
the application process you make it in
that's great but if you it's probably a
lot easier for you to get
if you were already in as my assumption
so why kind of gamble it all on this
application process yeah so we actually
looked at a few Challenger teams and few
like LCS like hyper type teams out there
and the big answer honestly was was just
like timing was really crappy like as it
turns out free agency only happens once
a year yeah and we just didn't have
access to like the top players you want
it or infrastructure we want to spin up
and it just wasn't enough time right
because I got hired you know sometime in
November of last year and it was like
wow we have to like spin up a roster and
a team and everything in like two three
weeks that's just way too hard for us to
do and we want to do it right the first
time
and so we're like you know instead of
doing it this cycle let's give it a year
we had heard rumblings of like
franchising and whatnot but as you know
like keeping hearing rumblings our
franchising for years now yeah I mean
they announced I believe at the end of
no no a until like 2017 yeah I feels
like March or April yeah I did that
interview I should know but alright yeah
so oh that infamous oh yeah the infamous
interview yeah the one that we all
Winston yeah and and and Eden one of
which made it one of which did not yeah
I'm not gonna say which one who knows
who knows that's under NDA yeah I think
it's I'm sure it is difficult for you
guys cuz I'm sure you were under a ton
of NDA for a while and it was difficult
to like operate I assume right yeah yeah
so I think one of the biggest things
that was super interesting over like
stars like release out to the public is
that we've been like generating scouting
reports we've been talking to people
we've been looking at staff like not
just on players side but also under you
like social media marketing and some of
the other sites and trying to level up
our like Houston Rockets side to be
better at eSports and we just couldn't
talk about it at all sure like last time
we had I think dinner like a few months
ago I was just like yeah we're working
on nothing still yeah absolutely I saw
you at the Sloan analytic Sports
conference at the start of the year and
I was giving you crap because you'd
already been working for the Rockets for
awhile I was like are you ever gonna do
anything any sports through it we're
doing things we go talking to people
come on let's view it I I definitely say
we're doing absolutely nothing yeah like
and you're like you're crap yeah
everyone from there sure so so
you guys came in that way what is your
personal background because again for
not just on the rocket side but I think
Lea legends fans might not know you've
been around in eSports for a little bit
yeah yeah so I got my first star in
these sports with namecheap
didn't make domain or destroy yeah big
support of net neutrality going into
child yeah you can buy domain names
there is the clutch gaming website going
to be registered through Namecheap I
mean I think he actually is I have a
double check I cannot do that but when I
was there we did user acquisition and
sponsorship and a lot of things like
that and the thing that really jumped
out to us 2014 was eSports was already
huge but people weren't investing into
it as much yeah and so we were the first
domain registrar to like sponsor teams
we sponsor like pre kirsty liquid post
curse Team Liquid we sponsor like tempo
storm sure any mark on a couple of their
teams and as you and I both remember in
2015 things really started to pick up
steam you can go crazy in this space and
when that happened the team called you
know team Archon which is a primarily a
hearthstone another team asked me to
come join them as their CEO and then
eventually CEO and I ran that for from
2015 to 2016 and then you know they
became more of a streaming team was
interested in streaming as much as I am
with eSports and the Rockets offer came
and that's it sounds great yeah
so one of the interesting things that
you kind of mentioned this but you guys
have been at this for about a year now
right yeah you're saying about and it
you from talking to you previously you
guys were already kind of figuring out
how to build a league of Legends team
long before the application process
began yeah and so can you talk to me a
little bit about that like some of the
you guys were kind of looking at players
I think even and that kind of thing for
sure we'll definitely go to specifics
when we can but for now I think the big
thing was we just don't think there's
enough time right we saw the schedule we
saw the application process and we were
like hey if we have to wait until
literally when we get in in order to be
able to field a good roster there's
won't be enough time to do that there's
so many other things to worry about
there's so many other moving parts that
we need to start doing our research now
and so it's like a really bad business
decision right because it's not good
idea to like
hey hey owner boss like let's like go
spend your money before we know what
this underlying asset is sure it was
like a super important for us to be a
hey look let's make sure we start
leveling up our understanding let's make
sure that we can like catch up to these
other LCS teams because we can people
like Andy people like the guys of Red
Cloud 9 super smart at building rosters
super good and they have a lot of
underlying assets right they already
have contracts you already have well
they don't have control they all contra
same they have like contracts of players
like TSM already has like a
top-of-the-line top laner who's na top
line mid laner who's na like there are a
lot of inherent advantages already we
just don't want to want information
being another disadvantage for us yeah
now you made it in what was the
application process like for you guys
so I think we were one of the first
applications in I have to guess we so we
found out about the application we had a
lot of information already ready to go
as we were anticipating some type of
thing happening and so we got in our
application like right after 4th of July
yeah like July it for 6 or something
like that do you guys do that San
Francisco style rental situation where
you show up and you're like here's the
application here's the cost to get in
and we're ready to go please get us in
right now I mean not that bad because I
guess really awful yeah but what we
ended up doing was just like we thought
the deadlines I think originally it was
like July 15 for any guy gets pushed
back yeah but we're like no we
definitely want this thing to be in one
the first guy said sure and so we with
and thanks to like Jose and I can and
will and all our guys on a design team
we like work through 4th of July be like
cancelled holidays we worked on the book
we made a really nice application but on
top of that we had all this previous
research we've been doing for the last
few months so we included that in there
and then we got in the door that way and
then we immediately started preparing
for what if we didn't make it yeah now
let's talk a little bit about what
clutch gaming is going to be because all
the different teams kind of had their
tag lines on there and I think yours was
kind of something about analytics or
numbers and that kind of thing yeah so
that's that's really interesting right
because we're really interested in
numbers and analytics but we're not like
actually
actively using them all the time right
one of the more interesting things
that's happening right now is that
there's this perception that like all of
our scouting reports like that were just
OPG G right we're like buying ofuji G
and we're gonna make all our decisions
based off OPG G and that's just strictly
not mobile it accessibility yeah yeah
mobile Linux yeah definitely great guys
over there much better project
wonder-percent definitely guys who can
definitely build a roster okay so
everybody your point but but we just
don't think that's true yeah we think
that this is a really really really hard
problem we don't think that there is
ability for us to be able to form
rosters based on without the entire
picture sure and so really what we
actually did was we spent a lot of time
Scout like we just watched film on
everyone and we have like scouting
reports and data sheets and data Iommi
like numbers she's been literally like
hey what was your matchup what was your
lane match yeah on every single player
in LCS every single player in EU LCS
every single clearin lck LPL LMS and
then every single player and Challenger
in LS PL and so an korean challenger but
that's a different one and so that's a
lot of what we did but that doesn't
that's not to take away from the fact
that we really care of analytics we do
think that this isn't impossible it's
just really hard well and part of the
reason that this I think is gotten
attached to you guys is that the Rockets
are kind of known for doing this right
right I mean like the big Rockets
discovery and Maury ball right with
Daryl Morey who devises a lot of stuff
we do is that threes a larger number
than two yeah and we haven't found
anything that simplistically explained
yet but the hope is basically look if we
think that growth and understanding of
League of Legends is a step function
which just basically means nothing
happens for a while then suddenly a lot
of things happen yeah and similarly
we're looking at that analytics and more
different approach the same way yeah are
there things we're missing right now and
will we suddenly bubble up of them so
the first piece of content you put out
was a a kind of analytics numbers driven
piece right you guys haven't even
announced your roster but you there
you're already putting our content out
there that's kind of looking at the
numbers of legal legends yeah I mean so
like one of our head of R&D his name is
you want thing it's a really smart guy
like probably the smartest guys in his
face and he just was like look we have
this thing we have we don't know if
that's useful yet yeah but super cool
and I was like yes this does seem super
cool and we just want to like
people know like that like we just want
to let people know what we're working on
sure and that may end up being
completely useless it probably is
honestly if I have to guess and if 99%
of things we work on are completely
useless we're okay with that because
that 1% of things that one thing that we
find yeah it's gonna be super cool
can give you the edge yeah exactly now
kind of going back to the rocket so what
is what is the clutch gaming situation
in terms of ownership and because
there's so many so many people think
like ok you can see like the Yankees
coming in with echo fox and then you
have issues area of situations like the
golden Guardians where they're very much
attached to Glenn stairs I think for a
lot of people there's not always an
understanding of alright are these
things owned by the owner of this are
they like how attached are they to same
so we obviously know Rockets are
involved in all the stuff so maybe you
can explain to me I don't need a cap
table but how this stuff looks so
actually it's it's super easy yes right
most organizations have multiple owners
like the Bucs have multiple owners the
Warriors have multiple owners and Nick's
had multiple owners we have Tommen for
Tita so 140 domes landries he owns are
called a nugget he's a great guy real
sharp mind great businessman and what
he's done is that he just bought the
Rockets right in the middle of our
process as we're applying actually right
because we applied July like fit for six
sure and then we announced they were
selling the team like a couple weeks
later sure and then we sell the team in
August like that's a personal that's a
quick turnaround but also like it's just
one guy and so we're a little bit easier
because we're an entity owned also by
tilling forty that okay and so like like
regardless what you think it's like the
Rockets own clutch gaming or like the
Rockets are a separate entity doesn't
matter because it's the same owner okay
so what how how intermingled is the
rocket stuff like first off clutch
gaming kind of a reference a little bit
it's to that area so how how much are we
gonna see that the Rockets get involved
with clutch gaming how much should
should fans associate these two brands
yeah I mean so I think the first thing
to know is just how much they've already
been involved right the the scouting
organization the coaching organization
the front office organization the
revenue guys
and guys and women actually are CRO as
crutching cheer are like head of
marketing or head of branding everyone's
been involved in this process from day
one and so that's super useful because
it's not like we're trying to respawn up
a relationship it's okay hey man do you
want to work on these sports is more
like I've just been around the office
for that barrier like being like hey we
need work on this can you help us out
with this what's the best way to you
know showcase a player or announce a
player what's the best way to like make
our brand look cool yeah stuff like that
so what's the best way to scout players
what's the best way to coach players
what's the best way to like build a
roster yeah and so that's sort of like a
really a lease on the personnel level
it's super interconnected and how about
just on the brand level because and sort
of the association these two things are
are we gonna expect to see rockets and
and clutch gaming and not only a league
team but if you guys ever get into other
games in the future are we gonna see
these two things very very closely
intermingled I mean even like as an
example
I know clutch gaming in reference to
sort of the Rockets in that city and all
that stuff but also you can compare to
kind of like the golden Guardians where
literally like the logo looks very
similar Golden State Warriors golden
Guardians you know like there's
definitely a lot going on there on the
rocket side and clutch gaming said what
should we kind of expect to see in those
areas so I think like first of our color
scheme is pretty similar I like where
red and black the Rockets some of the
Rockets colors are red in black I think
a lot of the similarities you'll see
it's just in time in terms of approach
sure in terms of some of the more like
high level things we also identify the
pieces right like we're a team that
wants to have fans all over the world
but we are like associated with the
Houston Rockets we will do outreach in
Houston as well but that's not going
like hamstrung us right and so it's a
little bit column a little bit column B
we really want to be our own brand we
don't want to be tethered to having to
be these guys but at the same time we do
want to like leverage those resources
level up to LCS yeah how about everyone
should should fans in Texas and
especially in Houston feel like they
need to be fans of clutch gaming I'm
sure your answer to be yes everyone
should be fan of course gaming but
should
should they be also in part because of
kind of the region component that's a
great question actually I wouldn't say
necessarily yes right I think fandom is
really interesting I think fandom is a
combination of finding people and
players and identities you like yeah and
if that's like you know that's golden
Guardians like that's fine I think
you're making a mistake
sure like you should never be fans
illegal to Guardians always you're fans
of clutch gaming sure but like you know
if they if you identify with their brand
or with them that's people or their team
good for you you should totally be fans
with them that's great for all of us as
a seed right yeah but if you like what
we're about which is you know being more
transparent about what we're talking
about be more transparent of the type of
decisions making decision making we have
being allowing you to be like a Monday
night Tuesday night quarterback choosing
morning quarterback rather similar like
questioning our decisions we're all for
that sure and so that's a case please be
a panel bus and if you're a fan of two
rockets or if kind of like Houston or
Texas sports also be a fan of us because
if you don't have an another team we
will take care of you cool if let's go
really quickly just to that last bit
because you kind of mentioned this
before and talking to me but can you
talk a little bit about this
transparency philosophy that you guys
have and and maybe how that's derived a
little bit from the rocket side yeah
sure so I think the Rockets in
particular and you know up and down the
organization is very open about what we
do and the decisions we make and one of
the things that we're going to up thing
to do is just be like hey here's why we
like these players here's why we think
this player is so much better than
someone else and we won't that's not to
say the other players aren't bad or
aren't good or bad or somewhere in
between it's just I like we just want to
be more upfront about how we're thinking
about things and and quite frankly one
of the big things we see in league of
legends among teams priests and
historically was this idea that their
information is so valuable they have to
keep it themselves right and we just
don't think that the half-life like the
longevity of information is that long
and the league of legends like something
you know to be a fact in 2016 is
definitely false today right and so me
knew for a fact that begin of the year
is definitely gone today I had a job in
2016 I had a job at the beginning of the
year yes so when you rather job next
year - and I like it'll be fine I'll be
completely but this is a job
but as I mean only as a point you know
rockets and the clutch gaming didn't
exist early I don't here right here look
if you if you told me 15 months ago that
I'd be working through Rockets and they
if he told me 12 months ago that we
would have no CS team I think yeah I'll
tell you crazy and so we're very
fortunate to be in this position and we
just want to be like very transparent
with our fans and supporters and even
with our players and team just like
here's what we're thinking here's what
we're doing here's what we're looking at
and here's try to help everyone got
better I know you can't talk about
rosters yet but final question how is
clutch gaming going to wing win spring
split playoffs so let's see so I think
the so hopefully we're like the first
scene okay and we have golden Guardians
at 60 okay so be the best way to go
about this probably is that we just
don't know right I think one of the big
things that we look at is trying a sense
of make sure our players getting better
right like it's not okay there's someone
set to see the day right like it's
probably the case that there are mid
laners today who are better than fake
green 2013-present in the last four
years or the majority of mid laners
today at the pro level or better in the
Pikmin 2013 because in the last week
everyone's got some better sure and so
part of trying to make first go to make
summer play or spring playoffs and then
for us to win it or do well I mean we
just have to have them proved between
now and then yeah and so how we do that
we're still working on sure anything you
want to say to any of the fans out there
who are thinking about becoming clutch
gaming fans maybe looking at some of the
roster rumors that are out and enjoying
a supposed lineup anything out there
that you want to say yeah sure if you
have any questions or concerns or if you
want to like ask for like questionnaire
decision-making please do look like one
of the big things for us is like we
don't know what we're doing half the
time most people don't know what they're
doing half the time we're just trying to
make the best educated guess we can
basically the set of information we have
and then go from there yeah and so
please support us if you can and if you
want to support another team for a
little band come over later in the split
we have more than happy to have you then
yeah well if you love people questioning
your decisions you're gonna love the
legal Arts and subreddit oh yes I got
everything you need I love reddit and I
love Lilith and subreddit yeah we'll see
how you feel a couple months from now
thank you so much so bad
before sitting down with me in the
Travis Cafferty sports studios here the
luxurious luxurious studios you can
check out the rest of my coverage of all
things eSports right here on my youtube
channel a lot of people ask me whenever
I said that other thing about double F
charging me $5,000 for an interview if
that was real no it was an obvious joke
he charters me ten thousand dollars in
energy whoo please please help me out
Travis CARICOM / support